A Shower of Great Bliss
A Prayer to the Lineage of the Vajrasattva Guru Yoga
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

shyi ying rikpa kuntuzangpö tsal
The ground’s all-pervading space—awareness—is Samantabhadra; from its radiance arises
shyi nang zungjuk rik ngé trinpung tro
The ground’s appearance—the union—emanating clouds of deities of the five families.
khakhyab gyalwa gongpé gyüpa la
To the conquerors who possess the mind-direct transmission that pervades space
solwa deb so chökü wang chok kur
I pray: grant the supreme empowerment of dharmakāya!

demchok dewé gar dzé garab jé
Lord Garab Dorje, dancing the dance of supreme bliss,
jampal shenyen drubchen shrising
Mañjuśrīmitra and the mahāsiddha Śrī Siṃha—
rigdzin tsal chang dagyü lama la
To the gurus of the sign transmission of the mighty vidyādharas
solwa deb so longkü jin chen pob
I pray: shower down the great resplendence of saṃbhogakāya!

tsokyé dorjé drimé shenyen gyi
Lake-Born Vajra, Vimalamitra,
jezung trulpé jebang lo pen tsok
And the emanated beings for whom they cared: the king and subjects, translators and scholars—
dampé kabab nyengyü lama la
To the gurus of the oral transmission who hold the authoritative words of the pith instructions
solwa deb so tulkü yeshe kyé
I pray: awaken the primordial wisdom of nirmāṇakāya!

tek chok tenpé shingta longchenpé
Longchenpa, pioneer of the teachings of the supreme vehicle,
sang sum gyutrul drawa jikdral ling
And Jigme Lingpa, who was the illusory net of his three secrets:
yeshe chizuk tsawé lama la
To my root gurus, universal embodiments of wisdom,
solwa deb so mindrol ngödrub tsol
I pray: grant the accomplishment of ripening and liberation!

tsemé shyiden changchub sem nyi jong
Bless me so that I may posses the four immeasurables, perfect the two bodhicittas,
wang shyi gyü min lam shyi ngön du gyur
Ripen my mind through the four empowerments and actualize the four paths.
nyendrub shyiden rigdzin shyi lam lé
Bless me, so that through the four phases of approach and accomplishment, I traverse the paths
of the four vidyādhara levels,
ku shyi drebu drubpar jingyi lob
And attain the fruition of the four kāyas!

Written by the Khyentsé Lha, the servant who delights the omniscient guru. Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Han Kop, 2019, with thanks to Khenpo Tashi Tseten for his clarifications.

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. "rdor sems mngon dga'i zhin sbyong gi brgyud 'debs/" in gsung
'bum/_mkhyen brtse'i dbang po/. TBRC W21807. 24 vols. Gangtok: Gonpo Tseten, 1977–1980.
Vol. 15: 449