Brief Vajrasattva Visualisation and Mantra Recitation
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Should you wish to practice a brief visualisation and mantra recitation for Vajrasattva, recite
the following:
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jin sok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Repeat this verse of refuge and bodhicitta three times as a preliminary, then continue with:
rangnyi tamal nepa yi
I am in my ordinary form.
chiwo pekar dawé teng
Above my head, on a white lotus and moon,
lama dorjé sempa ni
Is the guru Vajrasattva,
karsal dorjé drilbu nam
Brilliant white and holding vajra and bell.
rang ö nyem ma karmo ni
Amidst his own radiance, he embraces white Vajragarvā,1
driguk töpa dzinpé khyü
Who holds a hooked knife and skullcup.
dorjé pemé kyiltrung shyuk
They are seated in vajra and lotus postures
dar dang rinchen gyen gyi gyen
And wear silk and jewel ornaments.
tukkar da teng hung gi tar
At Vajrasattva’s heart, upon a moon disc is Hūṃ,
yigé gyapé korwar gyur
Encircled by the hundred-syllable mantra.
dak sok semchen tamché kyi
For me and all other sentient beings,
dikdrib nyetung dam dom nyam
Let all our misdeeds, obscurations, downfalls and impairments of vows and commitments,
malü jangwar dzé du sol
Be purified, each and every one, I pray.
ku lé dütsi gyün babpé
From his body flows a stream of nectar
nedön diktung dam drib nam
That removes illnesses, harmful influences, misdeeds, downfalls, and samaya pollution,
dü solkhu lang naktrak dang
Expelling them in the form of smoke, soot, steam, pus, blood,
sok chak nampé chir dön té
And tiny creatures.
lü nang dütsi khengpar gyur
The nectar then fills the whole interior of the body.
Recite:
om benza sato samaya manu palaya benza sato té nopa tishta dridho mé bhava sutokhayo mé bhava
supokhayo mé bhava anurakto mé bhava sarva siddhi mé prayatsa sarva karma sutsa mé tsittam
shré yah kuru hung ha ha ha ha ho bhagavan sarva tathagata benza ma mé muntsa badzra bhava
maha samayasato ah hung pé
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me
bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ
śreyaṅ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava
mahā-samaya-sattva āḥ hūṃ phaṭ
Repeat this hundred-syllable mantra as many times as possible. Then continue with its quintessence:
om benza sato ah
oṃ vajrasattva āḥ
Recite this too as many times as possible. At the end continue with:
gönpo dak ni mi shé mongpa yi
O protector! In my ignorance and delusion
damtsik lé ni gal shying nyam
I have gone against and corrupted my samaya.
lama gönpö kyang dzö chik
Lama protector, be my refuge!
tsowo dorjé dzinpa té
Chief of all the maṇḍalas, vajra holder,
tukjé chenpö daknyi chen
Embodiment of great compassion:
drowé tso la dak kyab chi
Chief of all living beings, in you I take refuge!
ku sung tuk tsawa dang yenlak gi damtsik nyampa tamché tol lo shak so
I confess all my impairments of the root and branch samayas of the body, speech and mind.
dikdrib nyetung drimé tsok tamché jang shying dakpar dzé du sol
I implore you: let my negative actions, obscurations, wrongdoing and downfalls—all my flaws—be
completely cleansed and purified!
lama gyepé dak tsang jin
The guru is pleased and grants purification.
ö shyu rang la timpar gyur
He melts into light and dissolves into me.
Then:
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
dorjé sempa drub gyur né
Attain the realization of Vajrasattva, and thereby
drowa chik kyang malüpa
Every single sentient being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
Reach his state of perfection too.
With this, dedicate the virtue.

Written by Chökyi Lodrö.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "rdor sems rgyun 'khyer ye shes chu rgyun/" in ’Jam
dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986
Vol. 6: 306–308
↑ Although Vajrāṭopā is sometimes given as the Sanskrit name of Vajrasattva's consort, whose
Tibetan name is Dorje Nyemma (rdo rje snyems ma), it seems that the correct Sanskrit name,
which is attested in several extant sources, is Vajragarvā.