Cultivating the Pure Realm of Manifest Joy
A Guru Yoga of Vajrasattva
by Jikme Lingpa

om maha shunyata jnana benza sobhava emako hang
oṃ mahā-śūnyatā-jñāna-vajra-svabhāvātmako 'ham
ngönpar gawa rangshyin trulpé shying
In the naturally emanated pure realm of Manifest Joy1
tanadukpé shyalmé khangchen ü
Is a great palace, immeasurable and magnificent to behold.
rang gi chiwor langpö tsenpé trir
In its centre, above my head, is a throne decorated with elephants,
tsawé lama dorjé mikyöpa
On which  is seated my root guru, Vajra Akṣobhya.
kudok karsal dordril yum dang tril
He is brilliant white in colour, holding vajra and bell, and embracing the consort.
shyi tsul gu dang gyencha chusum dzé
He has the nine peaceful demeanours and the thirteen adornments.
rik kündüpé daknyi chenpo la
To this great embodiment of all buddha families
chaktsal kyab chi lü dang longchö bul
I pay homage. I take refuge and offer my body and possessions.
dom sum damtsik nyampa tol lo shak
I openly acknowledge and confess impairments of the three vows and samayas.
changchub sönam chok la jéyi rang
I rejoice in the supreme merit of enlightenment.
tekpa gyatsö chökhor kor du sol
I beseech you: Please turn the wheel of Dharma of the infinite vehicles.
takpa gyen gyi khorlor shyuk soldeb
Remain forever, I pray, as the wheel of ornaments.
gé tsok khor sum yong dak chenpor ngo
Within the great purity of the three spheres, I dedicate all virtue.
khyé shé mögü dungwé solwa deb
With total trust and ardent devotion, I pray: please care for me!
ku chok dorjé dzöpü kyilkhor né
From the supreme body’s vajra-ūrṇā maṇḍala,
den sum tsangwé kyilkhor ngön trul té
The maṇḍalas of the three seats manifest in actuality.
bum wangkur né pung kham kyemché tsok
As they grant the vase empowerment, my aggregates, elements and sense sources
yongdrub den sum khorlor min jin lob
Are ripened and blessed as fully perfected wheels of the three seats.
ewam zungjuk rolpé kyilkhor né
Through the maṇḍala of ewam’s play of union,
shyuwa ku dang dewa sung dorjé
Melting brings about the vajra body, bliss the vajra speech,
mi tok tuk kyi dorjé rangshyin ni
And non-conceptuality the vajra mind.
changchub sem dang namtar sumden gyi
Through bodhicitta and the ritual of threefold liberation,
chogé chokwang nam sum ngön jé té
The three supreme empowerments are actualized:
lung yi shé jé dribpa dhuti ying
Wind-energy, mind, and obscurations of knowable things are vanquished all at once
chikchar chom né ga chok khyepar gyi
In the space of the avadhūti. The supreme exemplary and actual joy
pé dön lhenkyé yeshe tong gom lam
And the innate primordial wisdom are attained. The paths of seeing, meditation, and no-more-learning,
lobpa minpar yeshe lamé ying
The basic space of unsurpassed wisdom,
deshek kham kyi yönten tarchin tsol
And the qualities of the sugatagarbha are all perfected.
om ah guru benzasato rulu rulu hung jo hung
oṃ āḥ guru-vajra-satva rulu rulu hūṃ bhyo hūṃ
Recite this from a state of intense devotion, while at the same time focusing on the clear appearance
of Guru Vajrasattva’s body, his speech as the sound of mantra and his mind as non-dual
wisdom. With this you receive the ultimate empowerment.
Then for a concise way of receiving the symbolic empowerment:
lamé né sum lé özer kar mar ting sum rim dang chikchar du jung
From the guru’s three places, white, red, and blue rays of light radiate out, gradually and
then all together.
rang gi né sum du rim dang chikchar du timpé ku sung tuk kyi damtsik nyamchak dak | wang shyi
tob | drib shyi jang
They dissolve into me in stages and all at once, and purify impairments and breakages of the
samayas of body, speech and mind. I receive the four empowerments, and the four obscurations
are purified.
ku shyi sabön gyü la shyakpar gyur
The seeds of the four kāyas are planted in my mind.
Recite this from a state of ardent devotion. Simultaneously, focus on receiving the four empowerments
in word and meaning. The way to meditate should be learned from the guru.
Know that this is an extraordinary pith instruction.

This was revealed by the awareness holder Jikdral Lingpa through the mind-direct transmission
of the conquerors for the benefit of the chieftain Özer Trinlé.

| Translated by Han Kop and edited by Aaron Coote, 2019.
↑ Skt. Abhirati