Heart of Vajrasattva—The Heart of Confession, the King of Purification Practices
from 'The Immaculate Secret Vajrasattva'

om, shyi tok dangpö sangye kuntuzang
Oṃ! Primordial Buddha Samantabhadra, the ground of being:
dorjé sempa dorjé deshyin shek
O Vajrasattva, Vajra Tathāgata,
pawo chenpo drowa kyobpé gön
Great hero, lord and protector of beings:
dak la tsergong yeshe chen gyi zik
Turn your love towards us; gaze on us with eyes of wisdom!

ah, döné makyé yené namdak kyang
Āḥ! All is from the beginning unborn and primordially pure,
trul ngor lobur sharwé küntok lé
Yet conceptual thoughts, arising momentarily in our deluded minds,
marik zungdzin kyennang nyamchak kün
Cause ignorance, dualistic perception, impairments and breakages,
dakchen chöying yum gyi long du shak
Which we confess now in the expanse of the dharmadhātu mother, utter purity!

benza, sangwé dakpo dorjé damdrakpa
Vajra! Lord of Secrets, Vajrapāṇi, who declared the vajra decree,
ku sung tuk sang samaya bum gyi
Of all the hundred thousand secret samayas
dam lé nyam shing tsik lé galwa gang
Of body, speech and mind; whichever vows we have impaired or pledges we have broken
rabtu nong shying gyöpé tol lo shak
With deepest remorse and regret, we acknowledge and confess them!

sattva, nyampa kyön du gyurpé dü dé né
Sattva! Now that the time has elapsed for impairments to become faults,
lé kyi nyerdzin dorjé khandro yi
And causes for the harsh retribution commanded by
ka yi chepa drakpö gyur gyurpé
The vajra ḍākinīs, whose stern task it is,
dichi drib gyur nyal chen gyu sak shak
I confess having obscured this life and the next, by accumulating the causes of the great hells!

hung, döpé gyalpo yené dorjé ché
Hūṃ! ‘King of Passion’, the great primordial Vajra,
mik su mé ching nyam dang shakpa dral
Free from any conceptual reference, beyond all impairment or confession,
kuntuzangpo yé dzok rigpé long
Is Samantabhadra, always perfect, the vast expanse of rigpa,
dudral mepa chöying long du ah
Ever present as the space of dharmadhātu: Āḥ
This king of all confessions, these vajra words,Will empty saṃsāra from its depths,Just as the
philosopher’s stone turns iron into gold. This is an oral instruction which protectsThose
who have fallen prey to ignorance and impaired their samayas. It burst from the wisdom
mind of Samantabhadra,And I Padma set it down in symbolic code for the sake of future generations.
May it meet with my emanation, my own heart’s son! Samaya. Budhya. Śubham.
It was deciphered by Traktung Lekyi Pawo (Do Khyentsé Yeshé Dorjé). Virtue!